Add MASTG-TEST-0264, MASTG-TEST-0265, MASTG-DEMO-0038, MASTG-DEMO-0039 (#3246)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: demos/android/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-DEMO-0039/MASTG-DEMO-0039.md

id: MASTG-DEMO-0039
code: [kotlin]
test: MASTG-TEST-0265
status: new
---

### Sample

> This sample demonstrates the detection of `StrictMode` uses at runtime using Frida. The app enables a `StrictMode` policy to detect leaked SQLite objects and intentionally leaves a cursor unclosed to trigger the policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample demonstrates the static detection of `StrictMode` in the app using Semgrep. The app enables a `StrictMode` policy to detect leaked SQLite objects and intentionally leaves a cursor unclosed to trigger the policy.
```

{{ ../MASTG-DEMO-0037/MastgTest.kt # MastgTest_reversed.java }}

### Steps

Let's run @MASTG-TOOL-0110 rules against the sample code.

{{ ../../../../rules/mastg-android-strictmode.yml }}

> {{ run.sh }}

Reviewer: Isn't there a step missing? Since you run the semgrep rule against java code, I guess the app needs to be decompiled?

But since decompiling does not work so reliably, why not run a semgrep rule against the smali code?

Author: You're right. However, we have many demos following exactly this pattern. I'll leave it like it is for now because it's gonna be easier to just replace them all at once.

### Observation

The output shows all usages of APIs related to `StrictMode.setVmPolicy`.

{{ output.txt }}

### Evaluation

> The test fails because the output shows usages of `StrictMode` APIs, specifically:

Reviewer: Since we were only looking for the `setVmPolicy`, the text sounds a bit off?

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> - `StrictMode.setVmPolicy`

Author: ```suggestion
```
